Story Recapped here. Today, I'm
going to explain a sci-fi, horror,
mystery film called "The Lazarus Effect."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Footage shows a group of medical
researchers operating on a dead pig,
trying to bring it back to life. They inject
it with a serum and turn their machine on,
but nothing happens. When one of the
researchers jokes about eating the pig,
the pig begins squealing before dying
again, but this time with its eyes open.
At a university in California, Zoe McConnell,
one of the scientists, leads an intern student,
Eva, into their lab to document the team's
progress in experiments and research.
The student meets Zoe's coworkers Niko, Clay,
and Frank, who happens to be Zoe's fiancé.
In the documentary,
Frank explains that they manage to extract serum,
codenamed "Lazarus," by bonding B-cell tumors,
speeding up nerve fiber regrowth. They then
electrocute the serum to be activated and start
neural activation by inserting the serum into
the brain's temporal lobe and charging it with
the right amount of energy, which is enough to
trigger the serum and hope for the best results.
Frank further explains that they developed the
serum to help coma patients retain neural activity
and is now used to bring the dead back to life.
While Clay is fascinated with Eva, Niko seems
smitten with Zoe as he looks at her while
Clay asks him what she thinks about the student.
Meanwhile, Zoe plays a piece of classical music as
she prepares for their test experiment. The music
stops, and a silhouette appears behind her. She
looks around to check what's going on, and when
she turns back, a man behind a pig mask appears.
It is only Niko fooling around, trying to ease
the tension as he notices her so bothered about
the work. While they share the food that Niko
has brought, Niko asks her about how things
are between her and Frank. Zoe discloses that
it's almost three years since they got engaged,
but they had to put the wedding off since
the University granted them to do research,
and Frank seems to be serious about work. However,
Niko tells her that maybe the universe is telling
her something, which she dismisses, saying that
the universe is telling her to finish their
research soon instead.
That night, Zoe has a nightmare about a burning
apartment building, and she seems trapped inside
it. A pair of burnt hands protrude from beneath
a door while the dolls are flaming. With a gasp,
Zoe awakens and grabs her sacred necklace. Frank
enters the room to console her for a while,
then heads to bed.
The following day, the researchers discuss
how they would improve the last experiment,
which was almost a success. The previous
experiment seems to burn the temporal
brain after exposing a large voltage as
an activator. Clay introduces the idea of
putting a bio-insulator around the serum,
delaying the activation so that the brain
won't fry up.
To test his hypothesis, they operate an experiment
on Rocky, a deceased blind dog. They inject the
serum into the test subject, but nothing appears
to happen at first. They then adjust to a higher
voltage, still nothing. However, Eva notices
that Rocky twitches his ears upon watching
through her camera. They do not believe her and
say that it is due to muscle stimulation only.
Niko examines Rocky and announces that
seemingly nothing happened, then suddenly,
Rocky begins to bark and move around. Everyone
panics but still manages to calm Rocky down, and
Zoe notices that its cataract is gone. Frank warns
everyone not to disclose anything outside the lab.
Meanwhile, they then celebrate their
success with a bottle of champagne.
Later that day, Frank and Zoe take Rocky to
their home. They observe that he looks sad,
and he doesn't want to eat his food. Zoe seems
to worry about Rocky that maybe something about
their experiment went wrong as her guilt
clouds her mind, and she even questions
their research. Frank assures her that they
will help many people if the study succeeds.
Frank continues to work while his
fiancé heads to bed. That evening,
while Zoe is sleeping alone in their bed, the
door slowly opens, and Rocky appears on the bed,
approaching and watching her sleep.
The next day, back inside the laboratory,
the student tries to play with Rocky.
Still, he seems uninterested and anti-social. They
put Rocky under a C.T. scan to further examine his
brain. It turns out that the results show the
same symptom of hyperthyroidism, which is an
aggressive personality. Although the serum should
have dissipated within hours, the team discovers
that it is still in Rocky's brain.
Afterward, while Rocky sits in his cage,
Clay is left alone in the lab with Rocky.
For a moment, he turns away from the
dog, and he suddenly hears a crash.
When Clay checks what's going on, he finds the
fridge open with the food all over the place.
So, Clay immediately returns to see Rocky and sees
Rocky’s cage empty. Feeling scared and worried,
Clay finds Rocky growling at him. The team
returns, and he tells them what happened,
but no one believes him.
The following day, the University's dean
summons Frank to lecture him about the
underground experiments, unhappy that he
and his team are attempting to play God.
Frank discovers that someone has been showing the
dean their footage of the attempts of testing the
serum on animals.
At the same time, the shareholders show up at
the lab and seize all the team's equipment and
research database. Zoe accuses the student of
telling the dean since this only happened after
she arrived, but Frank says that someone wanted
to take over their project and take credits for
their masterpiece.
However, after learning that a major
pharmaceutical corporation had bought
out the company funding the project, the team
sneaks back into the lab at night to recreate
the experiment using a security pass that Eva
kept. They will do another experiment to document,
serving as proof that they own the rights of the
Lazarus project. Niko hacks into the security
system to buy them time, while Clay obtains a
second dead dog and prepares it for another test.
When the test subject is ready to be activated,
Zoe activates the voltage. However, the lights
turn off, and Frank finds Zoe lying on the floor.
It turns out that Zoe has been electrocuted. Frank
rushes to her side and notices she doesn't have a
pulse. Niko gives him an adrenaline needle, which
Frank injects into Zoe's chest, but she doesn't
respond. Clay brings the defibrillators over,
but they don't work either. Zoe is no longer
alive. While everyone is away and mourning,
Frank notices that she was electrocuted because
she was wearing her engagement ring on her finger.
Frank, unwilling to let her go, places Zoe's body
on the experiment table. Clay, Niko, and Eva argue
that this is unethical upon knowing that Frank
will inject the serum on her. Still, Frank goes
ahead, accepting whatever consequences await him.
Frank tells the rest to leave, but the team wishes
to stay with him to see the procedure through.
A little while later, Frank injects the serum into
Zoe while Niko takes charge of the voltage dosage.
When Eva switches the voltage, Zoe is still
not responding. Frank orders Niko to adjust
the voltage a little higher. Still, Zoe isn't
responding. Niko then notices that the security
guard is no longer in his station and is currently
approaching them. They immediately turn off the
lights and stay hidden until he leaves. Then
suddenly, the team sees Zoe sitting up on the
table. Frank comes towards her and examines for
anything out of the ordinary. Zoe then grabs his
wrist and inquires if she has passed away.
That night, Frank comforts her and tends to
Zoe's wound in her head while the rest of the
team watches her, still shocked that she came back
to life. The student asks her what she remembers
when she died. However, Frank tells her that Zoe
needs to rest. When the guard finally goes home,
they observe Zoe by scanning her brain under
the C.T. scan. It turns out that it has a lot of
neural activity happening inside her brain.
Feeling overwhelmed by scientific explanations,
the student asks Niko what is going on. Niko
then explains that Zoe's C.T. scan results
show that more than ten percent of her brain
is active when ideally, only ten percent of
the human brain works. He seems worried since
not many studies support what will happen
if ninety percent of the human brain is
activated.
At the same time, Frank continues to comfort Zoe.
He assures her that everything will be alright,
and she must trust him. Frank then shows her the
necklace and inserts the ring on it. While he puts
the jewelry around her neck, Zoe seems to hear his
thoughts saying something's wrong with her. When
Frank explains what she might be experiencing,
Zoe continues what he's about to say, making him
uncomfortable and frightened. Frank then heads
out of the room to inform others, while Zoe is
left alone in the room, confused about how she can
hear his thoughts and even controls the pen on the
table. When Zoe tries to concentrate, she appears
to listen to what everyone else is thinking.
A little while later,
Zoe goes to the comfort room and notices that her
fingertips and the spot where Frank injected the
serum have darkened. She accidentally breaks
the mirror, and her reflection seems to be
smirking at her, then suddenly Rocky appears
growling beside her. Zoe looks at him violently,
as if she's about to do something terrible then,
suddenly, everyone in the hallway can hear Rocky's
plea. She then heads to Frank and expresses
her concern that something is wrong with her.
Zoe claims that she felt trapped in the burning
apartment building and was unable to escape.
Frank dismisses it as a bad dream, just like
what she experienced before. He then injects
her with something that would make her sleep
to help her ease her mind and let her rest.
While Zoe sleeps, Eva notices
Zoe's eyes move as she puts Zoe under a blanket.
The student seems worried, but she leaves when Zoe
doesn't respond to her. As the student heads out
of the room, she finds herself in the same burning
building inside Zoe's nightmare. Eva walks towards
the hallway and notices a young girl standing in
the middle of it, holding something. She sees
some burning hands reaching out as the little
girl flees. The student tries to approach her,
but the lights in the hallway turn off one by one.
It is pitch black, then suddenly, a bright light
appears, and a burning hand grabs her wrist.
She wakes up screaming, and the researchers find
her lying on the floor. She walks out of the room
where Zoe sleeps, and she then describes what she
saw, including the burning apartment and people
pleading for help. Niko then notices a visible
burn on Eva's wrist and demands Frank for answers.
He discloses Zoe's traumatic childhood
experience in which she was trapped
in a burning building and saw her neighbors
sticking their fingers out, trying to escape.
According to Eva, Zoe may have seen something
before she died, and her soul may be trapped.
At the same time,
Zoe is left alone in a room. While sleeping, she
speaks prayers as she's having a nightmare again.
However, she stops praying and grabs her necklace,
and slowly floats from the couch. She wakes up all
of a sudden with her eyes going hellishly black.
While Clay takes care of Eva's burn, Niko works
on his computer alone in a room when Zoe suddenly
startles him. She begs him to help her figure
out what's wrong with her, and she uses a kiss
to try to manipulate him. He rejects it because
he knows it is not appropriate. Zoe appears upset
about something from the past. She says she spent
her whole life trying to make up for one mistake,
only to end up in hell. While still feeling
scared and confused, Niko tries to comfort Zoe,
but her eyes go all black again, and the lights
dim, and she vanishes. A supernatural force drags
Nikko inside a massive metal cabinet, trying
to escape from it. Zoe then reappears and
telekinetically crushes the container, killing
Niko inside with blood flowing through it.
Meanwhile, Frank, Eva, and Clay
return inquiring about Niko's whereabouts while
Zoe maintains her composure and remains silent.
Clay tries to call for assistance, but the
power goes out, as well as the emergency lines.
While Clay and Frank decipher how they will get
out of the laboratory while the power is off,
Zoe insults the student for being there, trying
to be part of their team. This incident gives the
student a hint that she has something to do with
Niko's disappearance. When Clay and Frank return,
Zoe is still playing ignorant of what is
happening. Clay yells at Zoe to tell them
where Niko is, but Zoe uses her supernatural
abilities to choke Clay with his e-cigarette.
While struggling, Clay discovers that it is Zoe's
fault as she winks and smiles at him. Frank and
Eva make a last-minute effort to save Clay, but
it's too late. When they dig the e-cig out of
his mouth, they realize Zoe is at fault. They turn
around and look at Zoe, and she's staring blankly
at them with no remorse. The lights turn off, and
Zoe vanishes once more. When the lights turn on,
they see Zoe summoning the equipment into
the air and throwing them into Frank and Eva.
A little while later,
the two realize something is seriously wrong
and attempt to hinder Zoe with a syringe.
Frank advises the student to inject the needle no
matter what happens. He heads out and discovers
Zoe sobbing in the hallway. Frank approaches her,
telling her that she's still the Zoe he adores.
However, she can read his mind and deduces that he
doesn't believe she's the same. Zoe grabs his head
and squeezes it until his neck snaps. Eva flees
when she sees this while Zoe takes the rest of the
serum and injects it into herself.
The lights keep going out, leaving Eva and Zoe
in the dark. A classical piece of music plays
as Eva searches for Zoe. When the student turns
off the music and prepares to get the syringe,
Zoe appears upside down, causing Eva to stumble
into the ground. Zoe approaches the scared student
while speaking prayers when suddenly Zoe throws
her into the burning building once more. Eva
runs into the little girl in the burning hallway,
who she recognizes as Zoe. Little Zoe gives Eva a
book of matches, which reveals that she's the
one who started the fire. Eva assures her that
it was not her fault and that she can correct
the situation by letting the neighbors out.
The evil Zoe then enters the hallway with
her skin scorched and her eyes blackened.
As Evil Zoe approaches, Little Zoe goes to open
the neighbors' door. However, when she opens the
door, they are blinded by a bright white light.
It appears that Eva manages to inject the syringe
into Zoe, who apologizes for her actions before
collapsing. To make sure, the student injects
another one in her neck, causing Zoe to die.
Meanwhile, Eva falls over upon hearing
a siren's sound, where a firefighter
arrives with a response team. He walks over
to Eva and consoles her as she cries in fear.
However, Eva notices that Zoe's body is missing.
Eva turns to face the fireman but comes face to
face with Zoe, who then breaks her neck.
A little while later, Zoe lines up Clay, Niko,
and Eva's bodies next to each other as she places
Frank's body on the experiment table. She then
injects the serum from her own body into him. With
a gasp, Frank comes back to life.
This story is based on the Lazarus phenomenon,
also known as the Lazarus syndrome, which is a
delayed return of spontaneous circulation after
CPR occurs. In other words, after cardiac arrest,
dead patients experience an unexpected return of
cardiac activity. According to the New Testament
of the Bible, the syndrome is named after Lazarus
of Bethany, who was brought back to life by Jesus
Christ four days after his death.
In this story, a serum whose initial aim was
to keep coma patients' brains active turns out
to have a rather unexpected side effect
of resurrecting the recently deceased,
demonstrating a Lazarus effect. It has many
thematic potentials, with the experiment serving
as a focal point for various issues concerning
work, love, and faith. As shown in Zoe and Frank's
relationship, is it possible for two people to
have a long-term romantic relationship if one is
religious and the other is not? Can a partnership
built on shared professional success survive if
it's otherwise ill-fated? Is it possible for
humans to know what happens after they die?
The story addresses these issues when Frank
uses the serum on Zoe after she dies in a lab
by accident. She resurfaces, but she does not
appear to be the same person she was before.
Her behavior becomes increasingly strange,
leading the other scientists to believe that
something beyond the grave corrupted her soul.
This could be interpreted as a metaphor that she
no longer cares about someone she has known for
a long time and learn that Frank is terrified
not of his partner's new behavior but of the
suspicion that he never truly understood her.